# Defence-Autonomy

## Publication
This research is first published in the CFA-VBA Journal Autumn Edition 2025. 

Readers can access the paper via the [journal's website](https://cfasociety.nl/uploads/vbajournaal/2025/autumn/Onderzoek6_VBA%20Journaal%20Najaar%202025%20nr%20162.pdf)
 
# Abstract
This study develops a system dynamics model to analyse the European defence sector's financial and operational dynamics from a firm-centric perspective, addressing gaps in existing macroeconomic analyses. The model captures complex, interconnected relationships between geopolitical tensions, funding mechanisms, and operational constraints over the short-term revealing that defence sector earnings face significant vulnerability to three key factors in ascending order of impact: geopolitical instability, delivery delays, and unwillingness to spend on defence. Moderate stress levels in defence spending and delivery delays have a greater impact on cumulative earnings uncertainty due to complex factor interactions, compared to geopolitical shock probabilities which has a greater impact on the absolute value of cumulative earnings. 

For asset managers, the findings emphasise developing prudent risk management strategies that account for the sector's exposure to intra-European political uncertainties and broader geopolitical volatility.

# The model
## Parameters
The parameters used for the simulation are at `SD_Model_Parameters.md`. For deeper questions about the parameters, feel free to send me a message.

## Vensim
The basis of the model is made in Vensim, download from here a [free version](https://vensim.com/free-downloads/) to open the `final_model.mdl` files. This is optional because the simulations are done in python.

## Python
The simulations are done using a python wrapper that reads the `.mdl` files, converts them to python `final_model.py` and does simulation and plotting in a jupyter notebook `simulations.ipynb`

# Results
The results are generated by python in csv:
* `results_unwillingness.csv`, `results_delay.csv`, `results_geo.csv` are results of simulating one variable individually
* `results_all.csv` are combined results of simulating all the scenarios together
 
